Assignment-1

1.How to find CPU, Memory, I/o in linux?
To find the CPU, Mmory and I/O in linux we can use the command Vmstat.

2. Check the current working directory?
The command used to check the current working directory is pwd.

3. Create a directory(name: dir1) and a file(file1) with linux command and insert some data in that file1.
mkdir dir1
cd dir1
nano file1.txt
enter some data and use ctrl X to exit and enter y which save the data entered in the file before we exit.

4.Difference between symlink and hard link
These links are basically pointers that associate to the files and directories
In simple words symlink is an alternative path to the original file whereas hard link is like an additional name of the  original file.
We can link the symlink to a directory but it is not possible to do it with a hard link.
The inode value is the same for both the files in hard link but it's different in symlink.

5.Please provide 5 vi or nano shortcuts
 
 Ctrl+E   - To get to the end of the line.
Alt+U    - To undo the last action.
Alt+Del –Delete current line.
Ctrl+S    - To save the current file.
Alt+G   -  To go to a specific line.
 
6.Please explain git branching strategy.

Git has a bunch of objects that share specific relations between eachother. One of those objects is commit.
Branching strategy is the process where these branches act as named references for the  commits. The branching strategy has set of rules like
When a developer should branch
From which branch they should branch off
When they should merge back
And to which branch should they merge back

7. Please name 5 AWS services and explain them briefly
Amazon EC2:
EC2 elastic compute cloud by which we can devolop and deploy applications quickly and effectively. It is also used to launch virtual servers according to the requirements.

Amazon Glacier:
The Glacier is an online web storage service that provides you with low cost and effective storage with security features for archival and data backup. With Glacier, you can store the information effectively for months, years, or even decades.

Amazon VPC:
Using the Virtual Private Network, the data is secured because only authorized people can view the data. So, the information is not exposed to outside people or networks.

Amazon Lambda:
This service allows you to run a code without server. This service supports the code written in Node.js, Java, Python, and languages supported by Amazon Linux.

Amazon S3:
This simple storage service is used to store the data in cloud and retrivr it whenever needed.
It allows the user to store, upload, retrieve large files up to 5 TB from the cloud.

8.How to find disk space?
To find the disc space we use the command df -h


9.When you create a script for running on a system, what is the typical first line at the very top of each script?
When creating a script to run on a system. The first two characters of the first line should be #!, followed by the path to the shell.

10.  What is root '/'? also describe the functionality of every folder with in root?
/boot - Stores the boot loader configuration files, is responsible for storing the configuration files for GRUB, and other files responsible for initializing and running the OS properly.
/dev - Stores all the device information files, is responsible for storing files about the devices installed in the machine, the hardware
/etc - Stores all the configuration files, is responsible for storing nearly all the configuration files used by different services and even by the hardware.
/home - Stores user created files, is responsible for storing files and directories created by a normal user
/lib - Responsible for storing all the library files used by the kernel in order to run properly on a 32 bit architecture.
/lib64 - Responsible for storing all the library files used by the kernel in order to run properly on a 64 bit architecture.
/media - Stores all third party device mount points, storing all mount points for every third party removable storage device you install, like CD –Rom, USB Drives, etc
/mnt - Stores permanent mount points, typically contains the mount points for file systems mounted after the system is booted
/opt - Stores remote system mount points, This directory typically contains extra and third party software.
/proc - Stores remote system process info, is a virtual file system containing information about system resources
/root - Super user home directory, administrative user's home directory, it stores all files created by the root user
/run - Stores process info of user, process information about all the users after a successful login.
/sbin - Stores system commands, that can be performed by an administrative or root user
/srv - Stores service related files
/sys - Stores system related files
/tmp - Stores temporary files, is usually cleaned up by the system at boot.
/usr - Stores user related files, like programs, libraries, documentation and other user-related files
/var - Stores all the variable files, such as mails, logs, printer spool data, etc

11.How to find the disk space of root and every folder underneath ?

To check the disk space of the root we use the command sudo du
Inorder to find the diskspace of every folder in it we use the command du




















 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

